cfp.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Call for Papers
permalink: /cfp
order: 5
---

# Call for Papers


Collaboration has become a particularly important topic in model-driven and model-based engineering due to the increasing complexity of systems, which requires a coordinated interplay between diverse stakeholders.
However, collaborative modeling cannot be restricted to purely technical concerns and requires support for efficient communication and reducing the threshold to stakeholder participation.

Complementary to the technical focus of collaborative modeling, participatory modeling focuses on organizing stakeholders into a purposeful process during which models can be elicited. The synergies between collaborative and participatory modeling are clear and it is high time to investigate them in detail.

This workshop aims to unearth the visceral synergies between collaborative and participatory modeling in a full-day format, entertaining technical presentations, keynotes, and a participatory discussion session.


### **Topics of interest**

The topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

- Technical facets of collaborative modeling
  - Real-time and conflict-free collaboration, consistency in collaborative MDE/MBE, conflict management;
  - Version control systems and techniques for asynchronous collaboration;
  - Multi-paradigm, multi-view, and multi-level aspects of collaboration.
- Organizational and human facets of participatory modeling
  - Methods for designing participatory modeling sessions: tools, languages, and facilitation techniques;
  - Involving domain experts without modeling experience;
  - Use cases and preconditions of participatory modeling: when is participatory modeling suitable?
- Synergies between collaborative and participatory modeling; mixed collaboration models.


### **Paper format**

We solicit the following types of papers.
- *Full* research papers (up to 10 pages) reporting on novel scientific contributions
- Short papers (5 pages), including:
  - *Work-in-progress* papers reporting on preliminary results;
  - *Vision* papers outlining new ideas;
  - *Case* papers describing real-life cases;
  - *Tool* papers demonstration of collaborative tools and frameworks;
  - *Tool concept* papers aiming to validate concepts and requirements of tools currently in development.

Note: **page limits include references**!

All submitted papers must adhere to the [IEEE Conference](https://www.ieee.org/conferences/publishing/templates.html) format.

LaTeX users must use the provided style files without modification.
IEEE requires the use of ORCIDs. LaTeX users should use the orcidlink package, \hypersetup{pdfborder={0 0 0}}, and \orcidlink{XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX} after each author name.



### **Submission**
Manuscripts are to be submitted electronically through EasyChair: <a href="https://easychair.org/conferences?conf=copamo2025" target="_blank">https://easychair.org/conferences?conf=copamo2025</a>.
All submissions will be reviewed by at least 3 members of the program committee. 

### **Presentations**
Authors of each accepted paper will be invited to give a talk.

### **Proceedings**
Accepted papers are intended to be published in the [MODELS](https://conf.researchr.org/home/models-2025) Companion proceedings and the workshop website. To be published in the proceedings, at least one author of accepted papers must present their work at the workshop.

#### **General regulations**

By submitting to CoPaMo, authors acknowledge that they are aware of and agree to the [IEEE Authors Rights and Responsibilities](https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/author-rights-responsibilities.html). In particular, papers submitted to CoPaMo must not have been published elsewhere and must not be under review or submitted for review elsewhere while under consideration for CoPaMo.

Commit message:

Updated the CFP with the link to the IEEE author rights and responsibilities

cfp.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Call for Papers
permalink: /cfp
order: 5
---

# Call for Papers


Collaboration has become a particularly important topic in model-driven and model-based engineering due to the increasing complexity of systems, which requires a coordinated interplay between diverse stakeholders.
However, collaborative modeling cannot be restricted to purely technical concerns and requires support for efficient communication and reducing the threshold to stakeholder participation.

Complementary to the technical focus of collaborative modeling, participatory modeling focuses on organizing stakeholders into a purposeful process during which models can be elicited. The synergies between collaborative and participatory modeling are clear and it is high time to investigate them in detail.

This workshop aims to unearth the visceral synergies between collaborative and participatory modeling in a full-day format, entertaining technical presentations, keynotes, and a participatory discussion session.


### **Topics of interest**

The topics of interest include, but are not limited to:

- Technical facets of collaborative modeling
  - Real-time and conflict-free collaboration, consistency in collaborative MDE/MBE, conflict management;
  - Version control systems and techniques for asynchronous collaboration;
  - Multi-paradigm, multi-view, and multi-level aspects of collaboration.
- Organizational and human facets of participatory modeling
  - Methods for designing participatory modeling sessions: tools, languages, and facilitation techniques;
  - Involving domain experts without modeling experience;
  - Use cases and preconditions of participatory modeling: when is participatory modeling suitable?
- Synergies between collaborative and participatory modeling; mixed collaboration models.


### **Paper format**

We solicit the following types of papers.
- *Full* research papers (up to 10 pages) reporting on novel scientific contributions
- Short papers (5 pages), including:
  - *Work-in-progress* papers reporting on preliminary results;
  - *Vision* papers outlining new ideas;
  - *Case* papers describing real-life cases;
  - *Tool* papers demonstration of collaborative tools and frameworks;
  - *Tool concept* papers aiming to validate concepts and requirements of tools currently in development.

Note: **page limits include references**!

All submitted papers must adhere to the [IEEE Conference](https://www.ieee.org/conferences/publishing/templates.html) format.

LaTeX users must use the provided style files without modification.
IEEE requires the use of ORCIDs. LaTeX users should use the orcidlink package, `\hypersetup{pdfborder={0 0 0}}`, and `\orcidlink{XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-XXXX}` after each author name.

Please note the [IEEE Authors Rights and Responsibilities](https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/author-rights-responsibilities.html).


### **Submission**
Manuscripts are to be submitted electronically through EasyChair: <a href="https://easychair.org/conferences?conf=copamo2025" target="_blank">https://easychair.org/conferences?conf=copamo2025</a>.
All submissions will be reviewed by at least 3 members of the program committee. 

### **Presentations**
Authors of each accepted paper will be invited to give a talk.

### **Proceedings**
Accepted papers are intended to be published in the [MODELS](https://conf.researchr.org/home/models-2025) Companion proceedings and the workshop website. To be published in the proceedings, at least one author of accepted papers must present their work at the workshop.

#### **General regulations**

By submitting to CoPaMo, authors acknowledge that they are aware of and agree to the [IEEE Authors Rights and Responsibilities](https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/author-rights-responsibilities.html). In particular, papers submitted to CoPaMo must not have been published elsewhere and must not be under review or submitted for review elsewhere while under consideration for CoPaMo.
